# VK-pro--and-anti-feminist

This repository contains the code and econometric analysis for studying gender inequality through social media data in Russia. The research leverages VKontakte group memberships to classify users into feminist and anti-feminist categories.

## Table of Contents
- [How did we get the group lists?](#how-did-we-get-the-group-lists)
- [Finding group subs...](#finding-group-subs)
- [Updating user characteristics](#updating-user-characteristics)
- [Visualizing](#visualizing)
- [Merging with .dta](#merging-with-dta)
- [Cities visual](#cities-visual)

## How did we get the group lists?
Firstly, I read this [article](https://web.archive.org/web/20231205130246/https://feministeerium.ee/ru/nekotorye-vpechatleniya-o-feministskih/) and extracted the feminist group names out of it.  
The resulting list of group names and their id's (some autogenerated using python) are in an [Excel_file](FEM%20groups%20VK%20(%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D1%8C%D1%8F)%20(2).xlsx)

Additionally, I loaded the top 10k groups (with the most subs as of 2018) and semi-manually chose the fem/anti-fem groups. The resulting list of groups (ids and some basic characteristics) are contained in the [FEM groups file](FEM%20groups%20(2).xlsx)

Ended up using only the groups from the article after filtering out the ones that are region-specific or are not open to the public. The file with the groups and some metadata can be found here: [Cleaned up FEM groups (article)](More%20info%20on%20the%20fem%20groups%20from%20the%20article.xlsx)

## Finding group subs...
Using pickles files [The big folder 17_01_18](collected_17_01_18/) I checked how many subs do our groups have and saved the info into [a pickle file](group_users_just_fem.pkl) or [an excel file](user%7Cgroup%20just%20FEM%20subs.xlsx).

## Updating user characteristics
Now that we've got a user\group table we can enrich it with user characteristics using [this code](Merging&dropping_groups.ipynb).  
We get [the main csv file](Merged_fem_groups_with_user_chars_city_names.csv).  
Further we can create pivot tables with users separated by their city names or by their sex using [this code](pivot_tables.ipynb), resulting in these files:  
- [Separated by sex](sex_group_subscribers%20(2).csv)  
- [Separated by city](city_group_subscribers%20(2).csv).

## Visualizing
To get a better idea about the data that we've ended up with I built some summary statistics using [this code](Visualizer.ipynb). We get a bunch of pretty pictures [stored right here in the folder](Pics).

## Merging with .dta
Vasya asked me to merge my data with his `.dta` file. I [did it using an outer join](Enriched_city_group_subscribers%202.0%20(outer%20join)%20(2).csv).

## Cities visual
To better understand how our datasets differ, I built a simple HTML map with cities from Vasya's file and the ones from mine using [this code](Map_for_cities.ipynb).  
The result is [this HTML map](combined_city_map_2025_2.html).  
Country names and translations are stored in [this txt](STRANY.txt), which I downloaded from [Artemii Lebedev's webpage](https://www.artlebedev.ru/country-list/tab/).

